Add release notes for Kyma 2.19 (#843)
kyma-project/community: docs/kyma-release-notes/2023-10-02-release-notes-2.19.md

## Application Connectivity

Additional logging options have been added to Central Application Gateway.

> https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/#debugging

Reviewer: Why not change the links to inline ones? They don't look nice as they are.

> Additional logging options have been added to Central Application Gateway.
> https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/#debugging

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Additional logging options have been added](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/#debugging) to Central Application Gateway.

```

> [Additional logging options have been added](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/#debugging) to Central Application Gateway.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Additional logging options have been added](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/tree/main/components/central-application-gateway#debugging) to Central Application Gateway.
```

## Observability

> Early warning: The Monitoring component will be removed with Kyma 2.20, as announced in this [blog post](https://blogs.sap.com/2023/09/07/removal-of-prometheus-grafana-based-monitoring-in-sap-btp-kyma-runtime/).

Reviewer: Maybe this could be a tab ? It would be more eye-catching.

Reviewer 3: why not, cannot imagine how it will look like, so can you do the change and then let's see?

Reviewer: I meant a panel, of course :D

> Early warning: The Monitoring component will be removed with Kyma 2.20, as announced in this [blog post](https://blogs.sap.com/2023/09/07/removal-of-prometheus-grafana-based-monitoring-in-sap-btp-kyma-runtime/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Early warning:** The Monitoring component will be removed with Kyma 2.20, as announced in this [blog post](https://blogs.sap.com/2023/09/07/removal-of-prometheus-grafana-based-monitoring-in-sap-btp-kyma-runtime/).
```

Update of the software stack:

>  - kube-state-metrics 2.10.0 (https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/pull/18135)
>  - oauth2-proxy 7.5.1 (https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/pull/18222)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - [kube-state-metrics 2.10.0](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/pull/18135)
 - [oauth2-proxy 7.5.1](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/pull/18222)
```

## Telemetry

> The Telemetry component has been [replaced by the module](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/issues/16301) and won't be part of the Kyma release notes anymore. Instead, learn about upcoming releases of the Telemetry module on https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/releases.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Telemetry component has been [replaced ](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/issues/16301) by the [Telemetry module](https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager) and won't be part of Kyma releases anymore. Instead, learn about upcoming releases of the Telemetry module on the dedicated [release page](ehttps://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/releases).
```

Reviewer 3: @IwonaLanger I prefer it more like that, do you agree?

Reviewer: Looks great to me 👍

	
## Service Mesh

With Kyma 2.19, we have updated the Istio component to version 1.1.0. It contains the following changes:
 - [Istio updated to version 1.19.0](https://github.com/kyma-project/istio/pull/373)
 - [Enabled Horizontal Pod Autoscaling capability](https://github.com/kyma-project/istio/pull/371) for a smaller cluster installation
 - [Additional Kyma resources and configuration](https://github.com/kyma-project/istio/issues/334), such as Istio Grafane dashboards or PeerAuthentication configuring service-mesh traffic to only allow mTLS

## Security

As announced in the [Kyma 2.18 release notes](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/releases/tag/2.18.0), we have removed the following components:
 - Cluster Users
 - ECDHE-RSA-AES256-SHA and ECDHE-RSA-AES128-SHA cipher suites

## API Gateway

We have removed the Ory Hydra component, as announced in the [Kyma 2.17 release notes](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/releases/tag/2.17.0).

> Also, we have removed APIRule in version v1alpha1, as announced in the [Kyma 2.16 release notes](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/releases/tag/2.16.0).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, we have removed APIRule in version `v1alpha1`, as announced in the [Kyma 2.16 release notes](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/releases/tag/2.16.0).  
```

## Application Connectivity

> Additional logging options has been added to Central Application Gateway.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Additional logging options have been added to Central Application Gateway.
```

https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/#debugging

## Observability

> Pre-note: the monitoring gets removed with Kyma 2.20 as announced in this [blog post](https://blogs.sap.com/2023/09/07/removal-of-prometheus-grafana-based-monitoring-in-sap-btp-kyma-runtime/)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Early warning: The Monitoring component will be removed with Kyma 2.20, as announced in this [blog post](https://blogs.sap.com/2023/09/07/removal-of-prometheus-grafana-based-monitoring-in-sap-btp-kyma-runtime/)
```

> Early warning: The Monitoring component will be removed with Kyma 2.20, as announced in this [blog post](https://blogs.sap.com/2023/09/07/removal-of-prometheus-grafana-based-monitoring-in-sap-btp-kyma-runtime/)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Early warning: The Monitoring component will be removed with Kyma 2.20, as announced in this [blog post](https://blogs.sap.com/2023/09/07/removal-of-prometheus-grafana-based-monitoring-in-sap-btp-kyma-runtime/).
```

> Update of components:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Update of the software stack:
```
My pet peeve, I hate using "component" here because that term is already used in the context of "Kyma component".

 - kube-state-metrics 2.10.0 (https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/pull/18135)
 - oauth2-proxy 7.5.1 (https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/pull/18222)

## Telemetry

> The telemetry component got replaced by a module https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/issues/16301 and will not be part of the Kyma release notes anymore. For upcoming releases of the telemetry module please follow: https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/releases

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Telemetry component has been [replaced by the module](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/issues/16301) and won't be part of the Kyma release notes anymore. Instead, learn about upcoming releases of the Telemetry module on https://github.com/kyma-project/telemetry-manager/releases.
```

	
## Service Mesh

With Kyma 2.19, we have updated the Istio component to version 1.1.0. It contains the following changes:

>  - Istio updated to version 1.19.0

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
 - [Istio updated to version 1.19.0](https://github.com/kyma-project/istio/pull/373)
```

>  - Enabled Horizontal Pod Autoscaling capability for a smaller cluster installation

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
 - [Enabled Horizontal Pod Autoscaling capability](https://github.com/kyma-project/istio/pull/371) for a smaller cluster installation
```

>  - Additional Kyma resources and configuration, such as PeerAuthentication configuring service-mesh traffic to only allow mTLS

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
 - [Additional Kyma resources and configuration](https://github.com/kyma-project/istio/issues/334), such as Istio Grafane dashboards or PeerAuthentication configuring service-mesh traffic to only allow mTLS
```
Let's combine those two points because these tasks were part of the same issue.

Author: it shall be Grafana instead of Grafane.

>  - Installed Istio Grafana dashboards

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

## Security

> As announced in Kyma 2.18 release notes, we have removed the following components:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
As announced in the [Kyma 2.18 release notes](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/releases/tag/2.18.0), we have removed the following components:
```

 - Cluster Users
 - ECDHE-RSA-AES256-SHA and ECDHE-RSA-AES128-SHA cipher suites

## API Gateway

>  - We have removed the Ory Hydra component as announced in Kyma 2.17 release notes.

Reviewer 4: I think this doesn't need a list, might look better without the bullets. TBC.

```suggestion
We have removed the Ory Hydra component, as announced in Kyma 2.17 release notes.
```

Reviewer 5: I agree :) Thanks

> We have removed the Ory Hydra component, as announced in Kyma 2.17 release notes.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
We have removed the Ory Hydra component, as announced in the [Kyma 2.17 release notes](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/releases/tag/2.17.0).
```

>  Also, we have removed APIRule in version v1alpha1, as announced in Kyma 2.16 release notes.  

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Also, we have removed APIRule in version v1alpha1, as announced in the [Kyma 2.16 release notes](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/releases/tag/2.16.0).  
```
